Temporary file to copy the national honors society responses onto a file sharing system
for my trip.

Peer Tutoring at Hillside Elementary School. For my community service hours required of me in 8th grade, I chose to peer tutor elementary school students who were falling behind in class. I taught them the fundamentals of math (addition, subtraction, etc.) and proper grammar.

Michael Kascak
michael_kascak@needham.k12.ma.us

I devoted one hour every Monday afterschool for six weeks from February to April to peer tutoring. I would bike from my middle school over to Hillside Elementary right after school to start each tutoring session at 3:00pm.

For my 8th grade community service project, I had chosen to partake in Peer Tutoring for elementary school students who had problems grasping basic, fundamental concepts in Math and English. I had contacted my old school, Hillside Elementary School, about the idea and set up a meeting with the school's principal. After receiving permission from the school's principal, I had made an appointment to meet with a first grader named Madison once a week for six weeks. I decided to bike to school every Monday, so that I could avoid the traffic and chaos of after school pickup and go straight there. On my first Monday, I met the student that I would be tutoring for the first time. Her name was Madison, and although she was kind and sweet upon meeting her, she later turned frustrated when we began to work on math together. Madison would become visibly frustrated whenever I tried to teach her a mental trick or try to explain something to her, because she felt as though she should know all of this stuff by now. Basic addition and subtraction problems became a challenge for her, and it was hard to teach her something that has become so automatic to me. The breakthrough came on our third meting together, when I brought in marbles and visualized each problem from her homework. To many it seemed like a silly idea, but Madison began to thrive after this moment. By our last time meeting, she could add and subtract numbers in her head like it was nothing. This experience taught me that it's very hard to generalize a teaching approach for students, because everyone learns differently. Peer tutoring refines student's skills by focusing in on areas of improvement, and is an important extracurricular method of learning for students.

Counselor in Training at Nobles Day Camp. I underwent CPR and Epi-Pen certification in order to become eligible as a camp counselor at nobles day camp.

Emily Parker and Claire Trainor
claire_trainor@nobles.edu

I had devoted one week to volunteering at one of the camp activities while it was understaffed. I served Monday-Friday, each day consisting of 8 hours of work from 8am to 4pm.

First Lego League (FLL) Mentor. Supervised a middle school robotics team, and offered advice on how to improve their robot to accomplish certain tasks. The robot was made out of legos and a Mindstorm NXT.

Alison Borelli
alison_borrelli@needham.k12.ma.us

The FLL team and I met every Sunday from 4:30-6:00 for four weeks, from late September to late October.

Co-Owner/Co-Founder of Tropic Spins Yoyo Company. Created a company that sells high-end yoyos with a few other friends of mine from across the country.

Elvis Hyunn (other co-founder)
916-202-7903

I started Tropic Spins on January 24th, 2014. Since then I have spent countless hours designing and marketing yoyos for other yoyo enthusiasts.

Starting a company in a competitive market at 13 years old with a few friends is a very scary thing to do. At first, the company decided to set small goals that would eventually build up to success. I had to learn CAD programming, how to contact machinists to create my product, and how to design a logo using Adobe Illustrator. The work was delegated between the three people in the company equally. I was in charge of yoyo design and communications, Spencer was in charge of assembly and testing, and Elvis was in charge of marketing and advertisement. Our initial goal was to release a small batch of yoyos which we had named "The Capricorn", but we hit some road blocks during production. The yoyos were being made out of 6061 Aluminum, and this wasn't cheap. We each contributed some capital, and found customers that were willing to be our beta testers. Many people did not take us very seriously, since we were so young, but once they tried the yoyo many were very pleased with the product. The yoyos that we made spin on a ball bearing fixed around an axle, which allows for players to create complicated tricks. After we were done testing, we released a production run of "The Capricorn" to the public on our personal website, and we had gained more attention that we had initially thought we were going to get. After this, we released three more yoyos, which we named "The Shipwreck", "The Finch", and "The Arcadia". All in all, we had sold more than 250 different yoyos to people all over the country. We knew people would be skeptical buying from teenagers with little experience, but we learned as we went. In the end, we had established ourselves as a successful yoyo company.

Advanced Concept Group (ACG) manager for FTC Robotics Team 4096. I taught upcoming freshman how to program in Java and get a good understanding of the FIRST robotics culture.

Hans Batra
hans_batra@needham.k12.ma.us

My school's robotics team meets every Tuesday night and Thursday afternoon, afterschool. Tuesdays are from 6:00-8:00 and Thursdays are from 2:45-4:30.

Camp Counselor for Nobles Day Camp

Emily Parker and Claire Trainor
claire_trainor@nobles.edu

I devoted 6 weeks in the summer, from late June to early August, working at Nobles Day Camp. Camp was 8 hours each day, spanning from Monday-Friday each week.

